---
page_title: Network (Data Source)
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  unifi_network data source can be used to retrieve settings for a network by name or ID.
---

# Network (Data Source)

`unifi_network` data source can be used to retrieve settings for a network by name or ID.

## Example Usage

```terraform
#retrieve network data by unifi network name
data "unifi_network" "lan_network" {
  name = "Default"
}

#retrieve network data from user record
data "unifi_client" "my_device" {
  mac = "01:23:45:67:89:ab"
}
data "unifi_network" "my_network" {
  id = data.unifi_client.my_device.network_id
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Optional

- `id` (String) The ID of the network.
- `name` (String) The name of the network.
- `site` (String) The name of the site to associate the network with.

### Read-Only

- `auto_scale` (Boolean) Specifies whether auto-scaling is enabled.
- `dhcp_guarding` (Attributes) DHCP guarding configuration. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--dhcp_guarding))
- `dhcp_relay` (Attributes) DHCP relay configuration. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--dhcp_relay))
- `dhcp_server` (Attributes) DHCP server configuration. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--dhcp_server))
- `dhcp_v6_server` (Attributes) DHCPv6 server configuration. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--dhcp_v6_server))
- `domain_name` (String) The domain name for the network.
- `enabled` (Boolean) Specifies whether the network is enabled.
- `gateway_type` (String) The gateway type.
- `igmp_snooping` (Boolean) Specifies whether IGMP snooping is enabled.
- `internet_access` (Boolean) Specifies whether internet access is enabled.
- `ip_aliases` (List of String) List of IP aliases for the network.
- `ipv6_aliases` (List of String) List of IPv6 aliases for the network.
- `ipv6_interface_type` (String) Specifies which type of IPv6 connection to use.
- `ipv6_pd_interface` (String) Specifies which WAN interface to use for IPv6 PD. One of `wan` or `wan2`.
- `ipv6_pd_prefixid` (String) Specifies the IPv6 Prefix ID.
- `ipv6_pd_start` (String) Start address of the DHCPv6 range when `ipv6_interface_type` is `pd`.
- `ipv6_pd_stop` (String) End address of the DHCPv6 range when `ipv6_interface_type` is `pd`.
- `ipv6_ra` (Boolean) Specifies whether to enable IPv6 router advertisements.
- `ipv6_ra_preferred_lifetime` (Number) Preferred lifetime for IPv6 RA in which the address can be used.
- `ipv6_ra_priority` (String) IPv6 router advertisement priority. One of `high`, `medium`, or `low`.
- `ipv6_ra_valid_lifetime` (Number) Total lifetime in which the IPv6 RA address can be used.
- `ipv6_static_subnet` (String) The static IPv6 subnet (when `ipv6_interface_type` is `static`).
- `lte_lan` (Boolean) Specifies whether LTE LAN is enabled.
- `multicast_dns` (Boolean) Specifies whether mDNS is enabled.
- `nat_outbound_ip_addresses` (Attributes List) List of NAT outbound IP addresses. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--nat_outbound_ip_addresses))
- `network_group` (String) The group of the network.
- `network_isolation` (Boolean) Specifies whether network isolation is enabled.
- `purpose` (String) The purpose of the network. One of `corporate`, `guest`, `wan`, or `vlan-only`.
- `setting_preference` (String) Setting preference. One of `auto` or `manual`.
- `subnet` (String) The IP subnet of the network in CIDR notation.
- `third_party_gateway` (Boolean) Specifies whether this network uses a third-party gateway.
- `vlan` (Number) The VLAN ID for the network.
- `wan_dns` (List of String) DNS server IPs of the WAN.
- `wan_egress_qos` (Number) Specifies the WAN egress quality of service.
- `wan_gateway` (String) The IPv4 gateway of the WAN.
- `wan_gateway_v6` (String) The IPv6 gateway of the WAN.
- `wan_ip` (String) The IPv4 address of the WAN.
- `wan_netmask` (String) The IPv4 netmask of the WAN.
- `wan_network_group` (String) Specifies the WAN network group. One of `WAN`, `WAN2` or `WAN_LTE_FAILOVER`.
- `wan_type` (String) Specifies the IPv4 WAN connection type. One of `disabled`, `static`, `dhcp`, or `pppoe`.
- `wan_type_v6` (String) Specifies the IPv6 WAN connection type. One of `disabled`, `static`, or `dhcpv6`.
- `wan_username` (String) Specifies the IPv4 WAN username.

<a id="nestedatt--dhcp_guarding"></a>
### Nested Schema for `dhcp_guarding`

Read-Only:

- `enabled` (Boolean) Specifies whether DHCP guarding is enabled.
- `servers` (List of String) List of allowed DHCP server IP addresses.


<a id="nestedatt--dhcp_relay"></a>
### Nested Schema for `dhcp_relay`

Read-Only:

- `enabled` (Boolean) Specifies whether DHCP relay is enabled.
- `servers` (List of String) List of DHCP relay server addresses.


<a id="nestedatt--dhcp_server"></a>
### Nested Schema for `dhcp_server`

Read-Only:

- `boot` (Attributes) DHCP boot settings. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--dhcp_server--boot))
- `conflict_checking` (Boolean) Specifies whether DHCP conflict checking is enabled.
- `dns_enabled` (Boolean) Specifies whether DHCP DNS is enabled.
- `dns_servers` (List of String) List of DNS server addresses for DHCP clients.
- `enabled` (Boolean) Specifies whether DHCP server is enabled.
- `gateway_enabled` (Boolean) Specifies whether DHCP gateway is enabled.
- `leasetime` (Number) Specifies the lease time for DHCP addresses in seconds.
- `ntp_enabled` (Boolean) Specifies whether DHCP NTP is enabled.
- `start` (String) The IPv4 address where the DHCP range starts.
- `stop` (String) The IPv4 address where the DHCP range stops.
- `tftp_server` (String) TFTP server address.
- `time_offset_enabled` (Boolean) Specifies whether DHCP time offset is enabled.
- `unifi_controller` (String) UniFi controller IP address.
- `wins` (Attributes) WINS server configuration. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--dhcp_server--wins))
- `wpad_url` (String) WPAD URL for proxy auto-configuration.

<a id="nestedatt--dhcp_server--boot"></a>
### Nested Schema for `dhcp_server.boot`

Read-Only:

- `enabled` (Boolean) Toggles DHCP boot options.
- `filename` (String) Boot filename.
- `server` (String) TFTP server for boot options.


<a id="nestedatt--dhcp_server--wins"></a>
### Nested Schema for `dhcp_server.wins`

Read-Only:

- `addresses` (List of String) List of WINS server addresses.
- `enabled` (Boolean) Specifies whether DHCP WINS is enabled.



<a id="nestedatt--dhcp_v6_server"></a>
### Nested Schema for `dhcp_v6_server`

Read-Only:

- `dns_auto` (Boolean) When true, upstream DNS entries are propagated. When false, `dns_servers` are used.
- `dns_servers` (List of String) IPv6 DNS server addresses for DHCPv6 clients.
- `enabled` (Boolean) Specifies whether stateful DHCPv6 is enabled.
- `lease` (Number) Lease time for DHCPv6 addresses in seconds.
- `start` (String) Start address of the DHCPv6 range.
- `stop` (String) End address of the DHCPv6 range.


<a id="nestedatt--nat_outbound_ip_addresses"></a>
### Nested Schema for `nat_outbound_ip_addresses`

Read-Only:

- `ip_address` (String) The IP address.
- `ip_address_pool` (List of String) The IP address pool.
- `mode` (String) The mode.
- `wan_network_group` (String) The WAN network group.
