---
page_title: Client (Resource)
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Manages a client of the network, identified by unique MAC addresses.
  Clients are created in the controller when observed on the network, so the resource defaults to allowing itself to just take over management of a MAC address, but this can be turned off.
---

# Client (Resource)

Manages a client of the network, identified by unique MAC addresses.

Clients are created in the controller when observed on the network, so the resource defaults to allowing itself to just take over management of a MAC address, but this can be turned off.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "unifi_network" "my_vlan" {
  name    = "wifi-vlan"
  purpose = "corporate"

  subnet       = "10.0.0.1/24"
  vlan_id      = 10
  dhcp_start   = "10.0.0.6"
  dhcp_stop    = "10.0.0.254"
  dhcp_enabled = true
}

resource "unifi_client" "test" {
  mac  = "01:23:45:67:89:AB"
  name = "some client"
  note = "my note"

  fixed_ip   = "10.0.0.50"
  network_id = unifi_network.my_vlan.id
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `mac` (String) The MAC address of the client.

### Optional

- `allow_existing` (Boolean) Specifies whether this resource should just take over control of an existing client.
- `blocked` (Boolean) Specifies whether this client should be blocked from the network.
- `dev_id_override` (Number) Override the device fingerprint.
- `fixed_ip` (String) A fixed IPv4 address for this client.
- `group_id` (String) The group ID to attach to the client (controls QoS and other group-based settings).
- `local_dns_record` (String) Specifies the local DNS record for this client.
- `name` (String) The name of the client.
- `network_id` (String) The network ID for this client.
- `note` (String) A note with additional information for the client.
- `site` (String) The name of the site to associate the client with.
- `skip_forget_on_destroy` (Boolean) Specifies whether this resource should tell the controller to "forget" the client on destroy.

### Read-Only

- `anomalies` (Number) Number of anomalies detected for this client.
- `assoc_time` (Number) Association time timestamp.
- `authorized` (Boolean) Whether the client is authorized.
- `disconnect_timestamp` (Number) Timestamp of last disconnect.
- `eagerly_discovered` (Boolean) Whether the client was eagerly discovered.
- `fingerprint_override` (Boolean) Whether device fingerprint is overridden.
- `first_seen` (Number) Timestamp when client was first seen.
- `gateway` (Attributes) Gateway information for the client. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--gateway))
- `guest_status` (Attributes) Guest status information for the client. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--guest_status))
- `hostname` (String) The hostname of the client.
- `hostname_source` (String) Source of the hostname.
- `id` (String) The ID of the client.
- `ip` (String) The IP address of the client.
- `ipv6_addresses` (List of String) List of IPv6 addresses assigned to the client.
- `is_wired` (Boolean) Whether the client is connected via wired connection.
- `last` (Attributes) Last known information about the client. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--last))
- `latest_assoc_time` (Number) Latest association time timestamp.
- `network` (String) Network name the client is connected to.
- `noted` (Boolean) Whether the client has a note.
- `oui` (String) Organizationally Unique Identifier from MAC address.
- `qos_policy_applied` (Boolean) Whether QoS policy is applied to this client.
- `satisfaction` (Number) Client satisfaction score.
- `switch` (Attributes) Switch connection information for the client. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--switch))
- `tx_retries` (Number) Number of transmission retries.
- `uptime` (Number) Client uptime in seconds.
- `uptime_stats` (Attributes) Uptime statistics for the client. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--uptime_stats))
- `user_id` (String) User ID associated with the client.
- `vlan` (Number) VLAN ID the client is on.
- `wifi` (Attributes) WiFi connection statistics for the client. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--wifi))
- `wired` (Attributes) Wired connection statistics for the client. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--wired))

<a id="nestedatt--gateway"></a>
### Nested Schema for `gateway`

Read-Only:

- `mac` (String) MAC address of the gateway.
- `vlan` (Number) VLAN ID on the gateway.


<a id="nestedatt--guest_status"></a>
### Nested Schema for `guest_status`

Read-Only:

- `is_guest` (Boolean) Whether the client is a guest.
- `is_guest_by_ugw` (Boolean) Whether the client is a guest according to UGW.
- `is_guest_by_usw` (Boolean) Whether the client is a guest according to USW.


<a id="nestedatt--last"></a>
### Nested Schema for `last`

Read-Only:

- `connection_network_id` (String) Last connection network ID.
- `connection_network_name` (String) Last connection network name.
- `identity_1x` (String) Last 802.1X identity.
- `ip` (String) Last known IP address.
- `ipv6` (List of String) Last known IPv6 addresses.
- `reachable_by_gw` (Number) Timestamp when last reachable by gateway.
- `seen` (Number) Timestamp when client was last seen.
- `seen_by_ugw` (Number) Timestamp when last seen by UGW.
- `seen_by_usw` (Number) Timestamp when last seen by USW.
- `uplink_mac` (String) MAC address of last uplink.
- `uplink_name` (String) Name of last uplink.
- `uplink_remote_port` (Number) Remote port of last uplink.


<a id="nestedatt--switch"></a>
### Nested Schema for `switch`

Read-Only:

- `depth` (Number) Switch depth in the network topology.
- `mac` (String) MAC address of the connected switch.
- `port` (Number) Switch port the client is connected to.


<a id="nestedatt--uptime_stats"></a>
### Nested Schema for `uptime_stats`

Read-Only:

- `uptime` (Number) Client uptime in seconds.
- `uptime_by_ugw` (Number) Client uptime as reported by UGW.
- `uptime_by_usw` (Number) Client uptime as reported by USW.


<a id="nestedatt--wifi"></a>
### Nested Schema for `wifi`

Read-Only:

- `tx_attempts` (Number) Number of WiFi transmission attempts.
- `tx_dropped` (Number) Number of dropped WiFi transmissions.
- `tx_retries_percentage` (Number) Percentage of WiFi transmission retries.


<a id="nestedatt--wired"></a>
### Nested Schema for `wired`

Read-Only:

- `rate_mbps` (Number) Wired connection rate in Mbps.
- `rx_bytes` (Number) Bytes received on wired connection.
- `rx_bytes_r` (Number) Bytes received rate on wired connection.
- `rx_packets` (Number) Packets received on wired connection.
- `tx_bytes` (Number) Bytes transmitted on wired connection.
- `tx_bytes_r` (Number) Bytes transmitted rate on wired connection.
- `tx_packets` (Number) Packets transmitted on wired connection.
