---
page_title: Dynamic Dns (Resource)
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Manages dynamic DNS settings for different providers.
---

# Dynamic Dns (Resource)

Manages dynamic DNS settings for different providers.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "unifi_dynamic_dns" "test" {
  service = "dyndns"

  host_name = "my-network.example.com"

  server   = "domains.google.com"
  login    = var.dns_login
  password = var.dns_password
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `host_name` (String) The host name to update in the dynamic DNS service.
- `service` (String) The Dynamic DNS service provider, various values are supported (for example `dyndns`, etc.).

### Optional

- `interface` (String) The interface for the dynamic DNS. Can be `wan` or `wan2`.
- `login` (String) The login for the dynamic DNS service.
- `password` (String, Sensitive) The password for the dynamic DNS service.
- `server` (String) The server for the dynamic DNS service.
- `site` (String) The name of the site to associate with the dynamic DNS resource.
- `timeouts` (Attributes) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--timeouts))

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of the dynamic DNS.

<a id="nestedatt--timeouts"></a>
### Nested Schema for `timeouts`

Optional:

- `create` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours).
- `delete` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours). Setting a timeout for a Delete operation is only applicable if changes are saved into state before the destroy operation occurs.
- `read` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours). Read operations occur during any refresh or planning operation when refresh is enabled.
- `update` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours).
