---
page_title: Radius Profile (Resource)
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Manages RADIUS profiles.
---

# Radius Profile (Resource)

Manages RADIUS profiles.

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `name` (String) The name of the profile.

### Optional

- `accounting_enabled` (Boolean) Specifies whether to use RADIUS accounting.
- `acct_server` (Block List) RADIUS accounting servers. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--acct_server))
- `auth_server` (Block List) RADIUS authentication servers. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--auth_server))
- `interim_update_enabled` (Boolean) Specifies whether to use interim_update.
- `interim_update_interval` (Number) Specifies interim_update interval.
- `site` (String) The name of the site to associate the settings with.
- `use_usg_acct_server` (Boolean) Specifies whether to use usg as a RADIUS accounting server.
- `use_usg_auth_server` (Boolean) Specifies whether to use usg as a RADIUS authentication server.
- `vlan_enabled` (Boolean) Specifies whether to use vlan on wired connections.
- `vlan_wlan_mode` (String) Specifies whether to use vlan on wireless connections. Must be one of `disabled`, `optional`, or `required`.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of the settings.

<a id="nestedblock--acct_server"></a>
### Nested Schema for `acct_server`

Required:

- `ip` (String) IP address of accounting service server.
- `x_secret` (String, Sensitive) Shared secret for accounting server.

Optional:

- `port` (Number) Port of accounting service.


<a id="nestedblock--auth_server"></a>
### Nested Schema for `auth_server`

Required:

- `ip` (String) IP address of authentication service server.
- `x_secret` (String, Sensitive) Shared secret for authentication server.

Optional:

- `port` (Number) Port of authentication service.
