---
page_title: Virtual Network (Resource)
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  unifi_virtual_network manages virtual networks (VLANs) in the UniFi controller.
---

# Virtual Network (Resource)

`unifi_virtual_network` manages virtual networks (VLANs) in the UniFi controller.

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `name` (String) The name of the virtual network.
- `subnet` (String) The IP subnet of the network in CIDR notation.

### Optional

- `auto_scale_enabled` (Boolean) Specifies whether auto-scaling is enabled.
- `dhcp_relay` (Attributes) DHCP relay configuration. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--dhcp_relay))
- `dhcp_server` (Attributes) DHCP server configuration. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--dhcp_server))
- `dhcpguard_enabled` (Boolean) Specifies whether DHCP guard is enabled.
- `domain_name` (String) The domain name for the network.
- `enabled` (Boolean) Specifies whether the virtual network is enabled.
- `gateway_type` (String) The gateway type. Must be one of `default` or `switch`.
- `igmp_snooping` (Boolean) Specifies whether IGMP snooping is enabled.
- `internet_access_enabled` (Boolean) Specifies whether internet access is enabled.
- `ip_aliases` (List of String) List of IP aliases for the network.
- `ipv6_aliases` (List of String) List of IPv6 aliases for the network.
- `ipv6_interface_type` (String) Specifies which type of IPv6 connection to use. Must be one of `none`, `pd`, or `static`.
- `lte_lan_enabled` (Boolean) Specifies whether LTE LAN is enabled.
- `mdns_enabled` (Boolean) Specifies whether mDNS is enabled.
- `nat_outbound_ip_addresses` (Attributes List) List of NAT outbound IP addresses. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--nat_outbound_ip_addresses))
- `network_group` (String) The network group. Defaults to 'LAN'.
- `network_isolation_enabled` (Boolean) Specifies whether network isolation is enabled.
- `setting_preference` (String) Setting preference. Must be one of `auto` or `manual`.
- `site` (String) The name of the site to associate the virtual network with.
- `vlan` (Number) The VLAN ID for the network.
- `vlan_enabled` (Boolean) Specifies whether VLAN is enabled.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of the virtual network.

<a id="nestedatt--dhcp_relay"></a>
### Nested Schema for `dhcp_relay`

Optional:

- `enabled` (Boolean) Specifies whether DHCP relay is enabled.
- `servers` (List of String) List of DHCP relay server addresses.


<a id="nestedatt--dhcp_server"></a>
### Nested Schema for `dhcp_server`

Optional:

- `boot` (Attributes) DHCP boot settings. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--dhcp_server--boot))
- `conflict_checking` (Boolean) Specifies whether DHCP conflict checking is enabled.
- `dns_enabled` (Boolean) Specifies whether DHCP DNS is enabled.
- `dns_servers` (List of String) List of DNS server addresses for DHCP clients.
- `enabled` (Boolean) Specifies whether DHCP server is enabled.
- `gateway_enabled` (Boolean) Specifies whether DHCP gateway is enabled.
- `leasetime` (Number) Specifies the lease time for DHCP addresses in seconds.
- `ntp_enabled` (Boolean) Specifies whether DHCP NTP is enabled.
- `start` (String) The IPv4 address where the DHCP range starts.
- `stop` (String) The IPv4 address where the DHCP range stops.
- `tftp_server` (String) TFTP server address.
- `time_offset_enabled` (Boolean) Specifies whether DHCP time offset is enabled.
- `unifi_controller` (String) UniFi controller IP address.
- `wins` (Attributes) WINS server configuration. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--dhcp_server--wins))
- `wpad_url` (String) WPAD URL for proxy auto-configuration.

<a id="nestedatt--dhcp_server--boot"></a>
### Nested Schema for `dhcp_server.boot`

Optional:

- `enabled` (Boolean) Toggles DHCP boot options.
- `filename` (String) Boot filename.
- `server` (String) TFTP server for boot options.


<a id="nestedatt--dhcp_server--wins"></a>
### Nested Schema for `dhcp_server.wins`

Optional:

- `addresses` (List of String) List of WINS server addresses (maximum 2).
- `enabled` (Boolean) Specifies whether DHCP WINS is enabled.



<a id="nestedatt--nat_outbound_ip_addresses"></a>
### Nested Schema for `nat_outbound_ip_addresses`

Optional:

- `ip_address` (String) The IP address.
- `ip_address_pool` (List of String) The IP address pool.
- `mode` (String) The mode.
- `wan_network_group` (String) The WAN network group.
